## Uploading Files

CentralQ Chat allows users to upload files in `.pdf`, `.docx`, and `.txt` formats, with a maximum size of 3 MB per file. The system processes these files, chunk them into smaller parts, and embeds them into the cloud vector database. These embeddings are then utilized by CentralQ Chat to provide answers to user queries.

### How to Upload

1. **Navigation**: Access file upload via `Search > CentralQ Chat > Private Data` or `Search > CentralQ Chat Setup > Private Data`.
2. **Upload Process**: Click on `Upload file`, select the file from your local computer, and upload it.
3. **Status and Insights**: After uploading, you can view the file's status in the Private Data list. The status might show as `Processing` or `Ready`, depending on the file size. A summary, generated by AI, and token count, used for embeddings, will be visible in the Insights factbox.
4. **Error Handling**: If an error occurs during the upload, an error message will be displayed.

<div style="padding:56.19% 0 0 0;position:relative;"><iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/904010892?h=b20fdbed42&amp;badge=0&amp;autopause=0&amp;player_id=0&amp;app_id=58479" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; fullscreen; picture-in-picture" style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" title="CentralQ Chat - Private data - Upload file"></iframe></div><script src="https://player.vimeo.com/api/player.js"></script>

### Managing Uploaded Files

- **Refresh**: Use the `Refresh` action to update the file's status.
- **Statistics**: Visit the `Statistics` page to view the remaining token count and number of requests left in the current month.
- **Usage in Chat**: Once a file's status is `Ready`, it will be automatically integrated into CentralQ Chat responses.
- **Storage and Security**: Files are securely stored in private Azure Blob Storage, outside of Business Central, ensuring no increase in database size. 

    !!! note "No Impact on Database Size"
        Uploaded files are not stored inside Business Central, so there's no impact on your database size.

### File Access and Security

- **Temporary Access URLs**: When citing a file in an answer, CentralQ Chat generates a temporary URL valid for 15 minutes. This ensures secure access and prevents unauthorized sharing.
- **Download File Action**: To download a file directly, use the `Download File` action, which securely retrieves the file from Azure Blob Storage.

### Chat ID and File Access

- **Changing Chat ID**: If you change the Chat ID in CentralQ Chat Setup, you will lose access to the files listed under the previous ID. However, the files are not deleted and can be accessed again by reconnecting with the initial Chat ID.

    !!! warning "Important"
        Altering the Chat ID affects file accessibility. Ensure you maintain the correct Chat ID to keep consistent access to your files.

## File Deletion and Replacement

CentralQ Chat provides straightforward options for deleting and replacing files within the system.

### Deleting Files

1. **Standard Deletion**: Delete a file by using the standard line deletion procedure in Business Central. You can select and delete multiple lines simultaneously.

2. **What Happens Next**: Upon deletion, the file embeddings are removed from the vector database, and the physical file is deleted from the private Azure Blob Storage.

    !!! warning "Important"
        File deletion is irreversible. Once a file is deleted, it cannot be recovered.


<div style="padding:56.19% 0 0 0;position:relative;"><iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/904024386?h=3cc08dd80c&amp;badge=0&amp;autopause=0&amp;player_id=0&amp;app_id=58479" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; fullscreen; picture-in-picture" style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" title="CentralQ Chat - Private Data - Delete file"></iframe></div><script src="https://player.vimeo.com/api/player.js"></script>

### Replacing Files

1. **Standard Replacement**: To update a file with a new version, you have two options:
    - **Delete and Re-upload**: Delete the existing file and upload the new version.
    - **Direct Replacement**: Upload the new version with the same file name as the existing file.

2. **Automatic Replacement**: If the uploaded file has the same name as an existing file, the system recognizes this as a replacement operation. The older version is automatically deleted, and the new one takes its place.

    !!! note "Note"
        To ensure smooth replacement, keep the file name consistent between the old and new versions.
